The purpose of this repository is to make cluster computing using RStudio Server on AWS simple and accessible.

This repository will:

* Create master and worker AMIs saved to your AWS registry
* Allow you to launch a master and a stated number of worker nodes, automating the network connections between them and hosting a common NFS-based home folder under the default `cluster:cluster-base-password` user:
    * /home/cluster is shared between master and all workers
    * /home/cluster/hostfile contains the IPs of accessible worker nodes, repeated based on the number of available worker cores
    * `cluster` user's .Rprofile defines an R function (`defaultCluster()`) which will reference the hostfile to create a PSOCK-based cluster

After that, login to RStudio Server as normal on the master, run `defaultCluster()`, and use the returned parallel cluster object with `parLapply()` and its peers.

# Getting Started

First, you must take three steps through your AWS console:

* Configure the default Security Group to [allow SSH and port 8787 traffic from your IP address](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/authorizing-access-to-an-instance.html),
* Save locally an [AWS access key and secret access key](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSGettingStartedGuide/AWSCredentials.html), and
* Create and save locally an [EC2 key pair](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html).
    
Next, "create_amis.py" is an executable file. Run from your `rcluster` repository folder, it will prompt you for your AWS access key, AWS secret access key, and the filepath to your key (you can edit "cluster-configs/basic_config.json" directly in lieu of following prompts). It uses that information, plus the bare-bones configuration dictionary stored in "cluster-configs/basic_config.json", to generate worker and master AMIs to your AWS registry using the "instance-configs\worker.sh" and "instance-configs\master.sh". 

Recommended edits to "instance-configs\worker.sh":
* Line 34: Indicate the R packages used by your analysis.
* Line 44: Replace `cluster-base-password` with a unique and secure password. (Not as necessary if your :8787 traffic is limited to your own IP).

Recommended edits to "instance-configs\master.sh":
* (Currently none)

Once "create_amis.py" has succesfully finished running, you should have "cluster-configs/basic_private.json" saved in your repository. This stores your access information and the IDs of the AMIs generated by "create_amis.py".

You should now be able to call "rcluster.py" from the command line. It takes two arguments, `--config` which indicates the JSON file to use (default to "cluster-configs/basic_private.json") and `--workers` to indicate the number of workers to generate (defaults to 1).
